Now that we learned a lot about how we prepare for deployment, let's finally deploy and for that, I will
use a hosting provider called heroku,
you can simply google for it,
you can get started with it for free,
it's a very popular one
but let me also say that there are dozens, hundreds, thousands of hosting providers you could use and
it's impossible to cover them all,
so I will try my best to show you the general steps of deployment and to explain how it works in
general.
So heroku is what I will use here and I will show you how to deploy to heroku in detail,
I already created an account,
you can do that by simply signing up, again
that is free
but first of all let me explain what heroku is and how we generally work with these hosting providers
because we use a hosting provider here,
heroku is a hosting provider.
The alternative always is that you build your own computer and you set it up such that it is connected
to the Internet, that you expose the right ports and that people can send requests to your computer
which might be running in your room and that is not a solution I recommend unless you really know what
you are doing
otherwise it's very likely to be insecure, not scalable at all,
if your app is doing really well then you will quickly need a new computer, a second computer, a third
computer and it only gets more complex and expensive and therefore, we typically use hosting providers
like heroku but also like AWS for example. There we take our code and we deploy it onto managed spaces
on their computers, also often called virtual servers and this means that these providers have very
large and powerful machines in their data centers and you typically don't rent an entire machine, though
you could do that
but a part on that machine,
so a part of the hard drive and some resources which are then provisioned for your managed space and your
code runs totally separated from the other apps which might be running on the same computer on the
same server,
your app runs separated from them and now you of course want to connect your app running on that virtual
server with your users.
Now typically you don't directly connect your space on that machine to your servers, though that is also
possible on some providers
but instead a lot of providers manage a lot of the heavy lifting for you and they give you their own
managed servers you could say in front of your server where you can conveniently add ssl encryption,
compression, logging or load balancing which means that when you have multiple virtual servers because
your app is doing really doing well and you need more resources, that in such a case incoming requests
are sent to servers with available capacities in an efficient way.
So that is all handled by so-called managed servers which are typically invisible to you which you don't
configure but which are part of the hosting provider package you could say and you just use a nice user
interface provided by the hosting provider to set up how your app behaves
regarding ssl or regarding logging and so on.
Now this all runs in a private network which means that your own virtual server and your code is not directly
exposed to the web but it's exposed to that managed server which then in turn talks to the web and therefore
to your users through a public server gateway
and that essentially is like a door where requests can come in there and then forwarded to your server,
to your virtual server
and the responses are also forwarded.
So this is how this works,
this is how most hosting providers work,
that is what happens behind the scenes,
just important for you to know,
not really a lot of stuff you have to do on that.
Now that is the behind the scenes stuff,
now let me show you how heroku works and how we can deploy with it
and of course that's just one example,
you can use any hosting provider you want for your application.
The general way of deploying your code does not really change.